			WORKSHEET
		 Statistics– WORKSHEET 6

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is the correct formula for total variation?
a) Total Variation = Residual Variation – Regression Variation
b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation
c) Total Variation = Residual Variation * Regression Variation
d) All of the mentioned
Answer:- b) Total Variation = Residual Variation + Regression Variation




2. Collection of exchangeable binary outcomes for the same covariate data are called outcomes.
a) random
b) direct
c) binomial
d) none of the mentioned
Answer:- c) binomial





3. How many outcomes are possible with bernoulli trial?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) None of the mentioned
Answer:- a) 2





4. If Ho is true and we reject it, then it is called:
(a) Type-I error
(b) Type-II error
(c) Standard error
(d) Sampling error
Answer:- (a) Type-I error





5. Level of significance is also called:
(a) Power of the test
(b) Size of the test
(c) Level of confidence
(d) Confidence coefficient
Answer:- (d) Confidence coefficient 





6. The chance of rejecting a true hypothesis decreases when sample size:
(a) Decreases
(b) Increases
(c) Both of them
(d) None of them
Answer:- (b) Increases





7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
(a) Probability
(b) Hypothesis
(c) Causal
(d) None of the mentioned
Answer:- (b) Hypothesis




8. What is the purpose of multiple testing in statistical inference?
(a) Minimize errors
(b) Minimize false positives
(c) Minimize false negatives
(d) All of the mentioned
Answer:- (d) All of the mentioned





9. Normalized data is centered at and has unit equal to standard deviations of the original data.
(a) 0 (b) 5
(c) 1 (d) 10
Answer:- (a) 0




Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.
10. What Is Bayes' Theorem?
Answer:- In probability theory and statistics, Bayes' theorem describes the probability of an event, based on 
prior knowledge of conditions that might be related to the event. For example, if the risk of developing health 
problems is known to increase with age, Bayes' theorem allows the risk to an individual of a known age to be 
assessed more accurately (by conditioning it on his age) than simply assuming that the individual is typical 
of the population as a whole.The formula is: P(A|B) = P(A) P(B|A)P(B) ..




11. What is z-score?
Answer:-  a z-score (also called a standard score) gives you an idea of how far from the mean a data point is. 
But more technically it’s a measure of how many standard deviations below or above the population mean a raw score. 
The basic z score formula for a sample is:

z = (x – μ) / σ




12. What is t-test? 
Answer:-  A t-test is used as a hypothesis testing tool, which allows testing of an assumption it used to determine 
if there is a significant difference between the means of two groups, which may be related in certain features. t=\frac{m-\mu}{s / \sqrt{n}}
t	=	Student's t-test
m	=	mean
\mu	=	theoretical value
s	=	standard deviation
{n}	=	variable set size





13. What is a percentile?
Answer:- In statistics, a percentile is a type of quantile which divides the given probability distribution, or sample, 
into 100 equal-sized intervals; this allows the data to be analyzed in terms of percentages.




14. What is ANOVA?
Answer:- Analysis of variance is a collection of statistical models and their associated estimation procedures used to 
analyze the differences among group means in a sample. It aggregate variability found inside a data set into two parts: 
systematic factors and random factors.




15. How can ANOVA help?
Answer:- An ANOVA helps to find out if survey or experiment results are significant. In other words, they help you to 
figure out if you need to reject the null hypothesis or accept the alternate hypothesis. Basically, you're testing groups 
to see if there's a difference between them.

