						WORKSHEET-1
					       DEEP LEARNING
Q1 to Q8 are MCQs with only one correct answer. Choose the correct option.

1. Which of the following can approximate any function universally (i.e. universal approximators)?
A) Boosted Decision Trees B) Neural Networks
C) Kernel SVM D) All of the above

Answer - D) All of the above

2. In which of the following domains we cannot use neural networks?
A) Image Processing B) Speech Processing
C) Fraud Detection D) None of the above

Answer - C) Fraud Detection 

3. Rearrange the following steps of a gradient descent algorithm in correct order of their occurrence?
i. Initialize random weight and bias
ii. Repeat the process until you find the best weights of network
iii. Change weights and biases for each neuron to reduce the error
iv. Calculate error distances between the actual and the predicted value
v. Pass an input through the network and get values from output layer
Choose the correct option:
A) iv – i – iii – v – ii B) v – i – iii – iv –ii
C) i – v – iv – iii – ii D) i – v – iii –iv –ii

Answer - C) i – v – iv – iii – ii

4. What is the full form of RNN?
A) Recurrent Neural Network B) Recursive Neural Network
C) Redundant Neural Network D) Resurrection Neural Network

Answer - A) Recurrent Neural Network 

5. What is plasticity in neural networks?
A) input pattern keeps on changing B) input pattern has become static
C) output pattern keeps on changing D) output is static

Answer - A) input pattern keeps on changing

6. What is stability plasticity dilemma?
A) system can neither be stable nor plastic
B) static inputs & categorization can’t be handled
C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled
D) none of the above

Answer - C) dynamic inputs & categorization can’t be handled

7. Read the following statements:
Statement 1: It is possible to train a network well by initializing all the weights as 0
Statement 2: It is possible to train a network well by initializing biases as 0
Which of the statements given above is true, Choose the correct option?
A) Statement 1 is true while Statement 2 is false
B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false
C) Both statements are true
D) Both statements are false

Answer - B) Statement 2 is true while statement 1 is false

8. Which of the following architecture has feedback connections?
A) Recurrent Neural network B) Convolutional Neural Network
C) Restricted Boltzmann Machine D) simple Artificial Neural Network

Answer - A) Recurrent Neural network

Q9 and Q10 are MCQs with one or more correct answers. Choose all the correct options.

9. In training a neural network, you notice that the loss does not decrease in the few starting epochs. The reason
behind it could be
A) Learning Rate is low B) Regularisation parameter is high
C) Regularisation parameter is low D) Stuck at local minima

Answer - (A, B, D)

10. Which of the following function(s) can be used to impart non – linearity in a neural network?
A) Stochastic Gradient Descent B) Rectified Linear Unit
C) Convolution Function D) Sigmoid Function

Answer - (B , D)

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type question. Answer them briefly.

11. What is Deep Learning?

Answer - Deep learning (also known as deep structured learning) is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning.
Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised.Deep learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks, recurrent neural networks and convolutional
neural networks have been applied to fields including computer vision, machine vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, audio recognition, social network filtering, machine
translation, bioinformatics, drug design, medical image analysis, material inspection and board game programs, where they have produced results comparable to and in some cases surpassing
human expert performance.
Artificial neural networks were inspired by information processing and distributed communication nodes in biological systems. ANNs have various differences from biological brains.
Specifically, neural networks tend to be static and symbolic, while the biological brain of most living organisms is dynamic (plastic) and analog.
The adjective "deep" in deep learning comes from the use of multiple layers in the network.Early work showed that a linear perceptron cannot be a universal classifier,
and then that a network with a nonpolynomial activation function with one hidden layer of unbounded width can on the other hand so be. Deep learning is a modern variation
which is concerned with an unbounded number of layers of bounded size, which permits practical application and optimized implementation, while retaining theoretical
universality under mild conditions. In deep learning the layers are also permitted to be heterogeneous and to deviate widely from biologically informed connectionist models,
for the sake of efficiency, trainability and understandability, whence the "structured" part.

12. What is reinforcement learning?

Answer - Reinforcement learning (RL) is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize the notion of
cumulative reward. Reinforcement learning is one of three basic machine learning paradigms, alongside supervised learning and unsupervised learning.
Reinforcement learning differs from supervised learning in not needing labelled input/output pairs be presented, and in not needing sub-optimal actions to be explicitly corrected.
Instead the focus is on finding a balance between exploration and exploitation.
The environment is typically stated in the form of a Markov decision process (MDP), because many reinforcement learning algorithms for this context utilize dynamic programming techniques.
The main difference between the classical dynamic programming methods and reinforcement learning algorithms is that the latter do not assume knowledge of an exact mathematical model of
the MDP and they target large MDPs where exact methods become infeasible.

13. What Are the Differences Between Machine Learning and Deep Learning?

Answer - Functioning: Deep learning is a subset of machine learning that takes data as an input and makes intuitive and intelligent decisions using an artificial neural network stacked layer-wise.
On the other hand, machine learning being a super-set of deep learning takes data as an input, parses that data, tries to make sense of it (decisions) based on what it has learned while being trained.
Feature Extractor: Deep learning is considered to be a suitable method for extracting meaningful features from the raw data. It does not depend on hand-crafted features like local binary patterns, 
a histogram of gradients, etc., and most importantly it performs a hierarchical feature extraction. It learns features layer-wise which means that in initial layers it learns low-level features and
as it moves up the hierarchy it starts to learn a more abstract representation of the data (as shown in the figure below). On the other hand, machine learning is not a good method for extracting meaningful
features from the data. It relies on hand-crafted features as an input to perform well.
Layer-wise features learned by deep learning network (Source)

Here features mean pixel values, shape, textures, position, color and orientation. The performance of most of the traditional machine learning algorithm depends on how accurately the features are identified
and extracted. Using traditional feature extractors does not solve the significant problem since even a slight variation in the data changes the features extracted from a conventional feature extractor like
local binary pattern (LBP), a histogram of oriented gradients (HOG), etc. Whereas, a deep learning network tries to learn all of these features through a combination of layers at different levels and finally
combines them to form a bigger picture as an abstract representation.

Data Dependency: Machine learning algorithms often work well even if the dataset is small, but deep learning is Data Hungry the more data you have, the better it is likely to perform. It is often said that
with more data the network depth (number of layers) also increase hence more computation.you can see that as the data increases the performance of deep learning algorithms increases compared to traditional
machine learning algorithms in which the performance almost saturates after a while even if the data is increased.

Computation Power: As you learned that deep learning networks are data dependent, they need more than what a CPU can offer. For the deep learning network training, you need a graphical processing unit (GPU)
which have thousands of cores compared to a CPU that has very minimal cores. The computation power not only depends on the amount data but also on how deep (large) is your network, as you increase the amount
of data or the number of layers, you need more and more computation power. On the other hand, a traditional machine learning algorithm can be implemented on a CPU with fairly decent specifications.

Training and Inference Time: The training time of a deep learning network can range from anywhere between a few hours to months. The training can often last for months. If you have a vast number of data,
training a network a more significant data usually takes time. Moreover, as you increase the number of layers in your network, the number of parameters known as weights will increase, hence, resulting in slow training.
Not only training but very deep neural networks can also take a lot of inference time since the input test data will pass through all the layers in your network, a lot of multiplication will take place which
will consume a considerable amount of time.

Whereas traditional machine learning algorithms often train very fast ranging from few minutes to a couple of hours, but during the test time, some algorithms can also take quite a bit of time.
Problem-solving technique: To solve a problem using machine learning, you have to divide the problem into different parts. Let's say you want to do object recognition, for that you first traverse through the
complete image and find if there is an object at each location and where exactly it is present. "Then, from all the candidate objects, you apply a machine learning algorithm let's say support vector machine
with local binary patterns (LBP) as feature extractor to recognize relevant objects. On the other hand, in deep learning, you give the network both the bounding box coordinates & all the object's corresponding
labels, and network learns to localize and classify on its own." -Source"

Industry Ready: Machine learning algorithms are often easy to Decode how they worked. They are interpretable regarding what parameters it chose and why it chose those parameters, but on the other hand, deep learning algorithms
are nothing but a black box. Even if the deep learning algorithms can surpass humans in performance, they are still not reliable when it comes to deploying them in the industry. Machine learning algorithms like linear regression,
decision trees, random forest, etc., are widely used in industries like one of its use case is in bank sector for stock predictions.

Output: The output of a traditional machine learning is usually a numerical value like a score or a classification. Whereas, the output of a deep learning method can be a score, an element, text, speech, etc.

14. What is a perceptron?

Answer - A Perceptron is an algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers. This algorithm enables neurons to learn and processes elements in the training set one at a time.
There are two types of Perceptrons: Single layer and Multilayer.
Single layer Perceptrons can learn only linearly separable patterns
Multilayer Perceptrons or feedforward neural networks with two or more layers have the greater processing power

15. What’s the difference between AI and ML?

Answer - we can differentiate both AI and ML as: AI is a bigger concept to create intelligent machines that can simulate human thinking capability and behavior, whereas, machine learning is an application or
subset of AI that allows machines to learn from data without being programmed explicitly.

Artificial intelligence is a technology using which we can create intelligent systems that can simulate human intelligence.
AI can be classified into three types:
Weak AI
General AI
Strong AI

ML can be divided into three types:
Supervised learning
Reinforcement learning
Unsupervised learning